---
layout: post
title:  "Migrating From Wordpress To Jekyll"
date:   2017-06-04 15:04:00 -0400
published: false
---

When migrating from Wordpress to Jekyll, an obvious first step is exporting your data from Wordpress. Fortunately, there is a Wordpress plugin for that. Unfortunately, some features that we take for granted in Worpress (such as featured images, and the `<!--more-->` tag) are not supported out-the-box by Jekyll and may require some extra fiddling.
<!--more-->

* TOC
{:toc}

## Getting Started With Jekyll

The obvious first step is getting yourself set up to develop a new Jekyll site. I strongly recommend taking a look at my guide, [Getting Started With Jekyll](/blog/getting-started-with-jekyll).
Before moving forward in the Wordpress migration, you should choose a theme, and also familiarize yourself with the process of overriding theme templates - both of which are detailed in the guide - because, in subsequent steps, we will be overriding theme files.

## Export Your Data From Wordpress

Start by installing [this](https://github.com/benbalter/wordpress-to-jekyll-exporter) plugin into your Wordpress site, activate it, and then use it to create an export. Unzip the resulting archive.

### Pages and Posts

If you look inside the unzipped archive, you'll see that your pages and posts have been converted to markdown files, and these files have "Front Matter" i.e. Jekyll meta data.
Move the pages and posts into your Jekyll project directory. Pages go in the project root; posts go in `_posts`.

### Config

You may also want to update some values in your existing Jekyll `_config.yml` with the values in the `_config.yml` generated by the Wordpress export.

### Uploads

You'll also want to grab your uploads directory. You could just plunk the whole `wp-content` directory into the root of your Jekyll site. This will mean that, in your eventual live Jekyll blog, your uploads will have the same URLs they did in your Wordpress site.

However, I wanted to get rid of the traces of Wordpress, and use a directory structure that was more nuanced. So, I created `assets/images/` in my Jekyll project, and moved the `uploads/` directory (which you can find inside the Wordpress export's `wp-content/` directory) into my new Jekyll project's `assets/images/`.
```
jekyll-project
  -- assets
      -- images
        -- uploads
            -- 2015
            -- 2016
            -- 2017
```

## Links

You might notice that your pages and posts refer to images and files using absolute URIs, i.e. `https://my-former-blog.com/wp-content/uploads ...`. If this is the case, you will need to edit those in order for you to be able to source images locally during development, and also in order to reflect any changes you made in the directory hierarchy of your uploads.



## Missing Elements

## Permalinks

## Read More Tag

## Static Homepage




- featured images
- plugin to export
- read more tag
- static homepage
- permalinks: set them in `_config.yml`, in file itself, and in filename
- missing tags?
- new features in Jekyll such as syntax highlighting

- deploying
  - code deployment
  - build for urls
  - \_site dir?
  - htaccess?

- useful commands

```bash
  open $(bundle show jekyll-swiss)
  bundle install
  bundle exec jekyll serve
  jekyll build
```
